# Constitution of the Data Science Club

## Article I. Name

The name of this club shall be "The Data Science Club."

## Article II. Purpose / Mission Statement

The mission of the Data Science Club is to foster a community of students who
are passionate about data science. 

The club will provide opportunities for members to collaborate, learn, and
develop their skills through workshops, events, and projects aimed at solving
real-world problems using data-driven approaches. 

The club exists to promote academic excellence and professional growth within
the field of data science.

## Article III. Membership

Membership in the Data Science Club is open to all individuals who are
interested in data science, with the following restrictions: 75% of the club
membership must be Utah Valley University (UVU) students, while up to 25% may
come from outside the student body. 

Voting privileges are granted exclusively to UVU students who have attended at
least three consecutive meetings.

## Article IV. Organization

All Club Officers must be UVU students in good academic standing.

Officers are responsible for organizing events, managing club resources, and
representing the club in official university functions.

The club will meet twice a month to discuss upcoming events, workshops, and
projects.

Financial oversight will be carried out by the Treasurer, who will work under
the supervision of the President to ensure proper use of club funds.

## Article V. Elections

Elections for club officers will be held during the second week of the spring
semester.

The President may call for additional elections at any time, but an election
must be held no later than 30 days after the announcement.

Officers will serve a one-year term, and no officer may hold the same position
for more than two consecutive terms.

## Article VI. Qualification for Office

The Club President must be a full-time student enrolled in at least 12 credit
hours with a minimum GPA of 2.5. They must also be a declared Computational
Data Science Major. Similarly, the Vice President must be a full-time student
enrolled in at least 12 credit hours with a minimum GPA of 2.5, and also be a
declared Computational Data Science Major.

Officers, including the Club President, the Vice President, the Secretary, and
the Treasurer, must have attended a minimum of five club meetings prior to their
election.

## Article VII. Removal from Office

An officer may be removed for failure to fulfill their duties, breach of conduct,
or failure to maintain good academic standing.

Removal of an officer requires a 2/3 majority vote from the total membership of
the club, following a formal meeting where the charges against the officer are
presented and discussed.

## Article VIII. Succession of Officers

In the event that an officer steps down or is removed, the following procedure
will be followed to elect a new officer:

1. **Interim Appointment**: If necessary, an interim officer may be temporarily
appointed by a majority vote of the remaining officers. This appointee will
serve until a new officer is elected or until the interim term ends.

2. **Special Election**: A special election will be held to fill the vacant
position. This election must take place within 30 days of the vacancy
announcement. All voting members will participate in the election, which will
be conducted according to the club's standard election procedures.

3. **Eligibility Requirements**: Candidates for the vacant position must meet
all eligibility criteria outlined in Article VI, including attendance and
academic standing.

4. **Notification**: All members must be notified of the upcoming special
election at least one week in advance. This notification will include the date,
time, and location of the election, as well as details on how to declare candidacy.

5. **Term of Replacement Officer**: The newly elected officer will complete the
remainder of the original officer’s term. This partial term will not count
towards the two consecutive term limit outlined in Article V.

## Article IX. By-Laws

The by-laws of the Data Science Club will dictate the conduct of meetings, event
organization, and member responsibilities.

By-laws may be adopted or modified through a 2/3 quorum vote of all the present
members during an official meeting. Any changes must be communicated to all
members at least one week in advance of the vote.

## Article X. Amendments

Amendments to this constitution may be proposed by any club officer or by a
petition signed by at least 25% of the membership.

A 2/3 majority vote from a quorum of attending members is required to pass an
amendment. 

Voting must occur during a regularly scheduled meeting, with all members given
notice at least one week in advance.

## Article XI. Ratification

This constitution shall become effective upon a 2/3 quorum vote by the founding
members of the Data Science Club.

No actions shall be taken by the club until the constitution has been ratified.

## UVU Non-discrimination act

In accordance with federal laws and regulations, UVU prohibits discrimination
based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, gender expression, age, disability, veteran status, pregnancy,
childbirth, pregnancy-related conditions, citizenship, genetic information, or
any other basis protected by applicable law. The requirement not to discriminate
applies to participants in UVU’s educational programs, activities, benefits, and
services and extends to admissions and employment in accordance with Section
504, Title IX, and 34 CFR 106.
